* Storage on AWS:

The internal storage is called instance store
The external connected storage is called Amazon Elastic Block Store or Amazon EBS

You can attach multiple EBS volumes to one EC2 instance.

You need an EC2 instance to access data on an EBS volume

+ Nếu ko muốn kết nối với EBS volume này ta có thể ngắt và kết nối với EC2 instance khác trong cùng 1 AZ.

+ Depending on the instance type and EBS volume you are using, you can even have the same EBS volume attached to multiple instances, which is called Amazon EBS Multi-Attach


+They've divided into two main volume types: SSD backed volumes and HDD backed volumes

SSDs provide strong performance for random input/output (I/O)
HDDs provide strong performance for sequential I/O
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Benefits of Using Amazon EBS
Here are the following benefits of using Amazon EBS (in case you need a quick cheat sheet).

High availability: When you create an EBS volume, it is automatically replicated within its Availability Zone to prevent data loss from single points of failure.

Data persistence: The storage persists even when your instance doesn’t.

Data encryption: All EBS volumes support encryption.

Flexibility: EBS volumes support on-the-fly changes. You can modify volume type, volume size, and input/output operations per second (IOPS) capacity without stopping your instance.

Backups: Amazon EBS provides you the ability to create backups of any EBS volume.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Amazon Elastic Block Storage (Amazon EBS)  As the name implies, Amazon EBS is a block-level storage device that you can attach to an Amazon EC2 instance. These storage devices are called Amazon EBS volumes. EBS volumes are essentially drives of a user-configured size attached to an EC2 instance, similar to how you might attach an external drive to your laptop. 

 EBS volumes act similarly to external drives in more than one way.

Most Amazon EBS volumes can only be connected with one computer at a time. Most EBS volumes have a one-to-one relationship with EC2 instances, so they cannot be shared by or attached to multiple instances at one time. Note: Recently, AWS announced the Amazon EBS multi-attach feature that enables volumes to be attached to multiple EC2 instances at one time. This feature is not available for all instance types and all instances must be in the same Availability Zone. Read more about this scenario in the 
EBS documentation
 
.

You can detach an EBS volume from one EC2 instance and attach it to another EC2 instance in the same Availability Zone, to access the data on it.

The external drive is separate from the computer. That means, if an accident happens and the computer goes down, you still have your data on your external drive. The same is true for EBS volumes.

You’re limited to the size of the external drive, since it has a fixed limit to how scalable it can be. For example, you may have a 2 TB external drive and that means you can only have 2 TB of content on there. This relates to EBS as well, since volumes also have a max limitation of how much content you can store on the volume.


Scale Amazon EBS Volumes
You can scale Amazon EBS volumes in two ways. 

Increase the volume size, as long as it doesn’t increase above the maximum size limit. For EBS volumes, the maximum amount of storage you can have is 16 TB. That means if you provision a 5 TB EBS volume, you can choose to increase the size of your volume until you get to 16 TB.

Attach multiple volumes to a single Amazon EC2 instance. EC2 has a one-to-many relationship with EBS volumes. You can add these additional volumes during or after EC2 instance creation to provide more storage capacity for your hosts.


Amazon EBS Use Cases
Amazon EBS is useful when you need to retrieve data quickly and have data persist long-term. Volumes are commonly used in the following scenarios. 

Operating systems: Boot/root volumes to store an operating system. The root device for an instance launched from an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) is typically an Amazon EBS volume. These are commonly referred to as EBS-backed AMIs. 

Databases: A storage layer for databases running on Amazon EC2 that rely on transactional reads and writes.

Enterprise applications: Amazon EBS provides reliable block storage to run business-critical applications.

Throughput-intensive applications: Applications that perform long, continuous reads and writes.


EBS Provisioned IOPS SSD

EBS General Purpose SSD

Throughput Optimized HDD

Cold HDD

Description

Highest performance SSD designed for latency-sensitive transactional workloads

 General purpose SSD that balances price and performance for a wide variety of transactional workloads

 Low-cost HDD designed for frequently accessed, throughput intensive workloads

 Lowest cost HDD designed for less frequently accessed workloads

Use Cases

I/O-intensive NoSQL and relational databases

 Boot volumes, low-latency interactive apps, development, and test

Big data, data warehouses, log processing

Colder data requiring fewer scans per day

Volume Size

4 GB-16 TB

1 GB-16 TB

500 GB-16 TB

500 GB-16 TB

Max IOPS/Volume 

64,000

16,000

500

250

Max Throughput/Volume

1,000 MB/s

250 MB/s

500 MB/s

250 MB/s